---
permalink: /W01/
---
<br>
## Top 10 List Week 01:<br>
**1. Open Source Software <br>**
Open-source software is a type of computer software in which source code is released under a license in which the copyright holder grants users the rights to use, study, change, and distribute the software to anyone and for any purpose.<br>
**2. Free Software <br>**
Software which you are free to use,change, modify, and distribute/redistribute your own version with other.<br>
**3. Free vs Open Source Software<br>**
Both are pretty similar but the main difference comes in the licenses and the restricting users’ rights to change and improve code on their own terms. Open source do take more concern to ethical and users' right.
**4.Virtualization<br>**
To create a virtual version of (a computer, operating system, data storage device, etc.), which is not itself an independent device but both works and appears to the user as a single, physical entity<br>
**5.Virtual Machine<br>**
A Virtual Machine (VM) is a compute resource that uses software instead of a physical computer to run programs and deploy apps.<br>
**6.Cloud Computing<br>**
Cloud computing is the on-demand availability of computer system resources, especially data storage and computing power, without direct active management by the user. The term is generally used to describe data centers available to many users over the Internet.<br>
**7.Command Line Interface<br>**
A command-line interface (CLI) processes commands to a computer program in the form of lines of text. The program which handles the interface is called a command-line interpreter or command-line processor.<br>
**8.System Call<br>**
Asystem call is the programmatic way in which a computer program requests a service from the kernel of the operating system it is executed on. A system call is a way for programs to interact with the operating system.<br>
**9.Hypervisor<br>**
A hypervisor is computer software, firmware or hardware that creates and runs virtual machines. A computer on which a hypervisor runs one or more virtual machines is called a host machine, and each virtual machine is called a guest machine.
**10.Operating System Services<br>**
An Operating System supplies different kinds of services to both the users and to the programs as well. It also provides application programs (that run within an Operating system) an environment to execute it freely. It provides users the services run various programs in a convenient manner.
Examples:User Interface,Program Execution, File system manipulation, Input / Output Operations, Communication, Resource Allocation, Error Detection, Accounting, Security and protection
